# Song of Achilles

**Spoilers ahead.**

_The Song of Achilles_ is a powerful telling of the story of Patroclus and Achilles of Greek mythology and the Trojan War, told through the lens of the former. I must admit I had not heard of Patroclus until reading this book, which I think helped me keep an open mind when learning about his character, his story, and his life. On the other hand, I knew two things about Achilles: that he was the greatest warrior of the Trojan War, and that he was killed by an arrow to his heel. This novel gave his character a much more three-dimensional shape, at least in terms of how Patroclus feels. The novel touches on a lot of themes, including love, fate, prejudice, pride, homosexuality, time, and fame. I could devote a paragraph to each of these themes but I'll try to focus on the few that stuck out the strongest to me.

At its core, this book is about is love. It didn't exactly start with Achilles, but you quickly forget that there was ever a part of this story without him. The way Miller writes Patroclus' thoughts is so evocative that his perception of Achilles has overridden whatever two-dimensional image I had of him through my admittedly limited exploration of Greek mythology and the Percy Jackson series. As we discover Achilles' beauty through Patroclus' eyes, his life is simply overtaken by this love. Perhaps it was the cynic in me, or maybe I didn't try hard enough to put myself in his shoes, but I was definitely taken aback by how all-consuming his emotions are. How can this one axis of life erase everything else from his mind? Maybe it just means I'm simply not as passionate a man as Patroclus.

But it's the love that, of course, is the inimitable and most powerful emotional throughline of the story. As the boys grow up, so too does their love. The carefree days spent in pure joy on Mount Pelion are replaced by the everpresent doom portented by the Fates. You can feel Patroclus' fear intermingled with his desire for Achilles' to achieve his destiny, and how it tears at him. Throughout the story, I was also acutely aware of how inherently imbalanced their relationship was from the outside: Achilles, _Aristos Achaion_, the most famed warrior of the Greeks, next to Patroclus, accepted solely because of his association with Achilles. A friend of mine who had recommended the book told me that she cried through the last 40 pages of the book, and I definitely scoffed internally and said to myself, "As if I would be so emotionally fragile." Boy, how wrong I was. From the moment that Patroclus

I enjoyed how Miller provided the stage for the love between two boys. Even in today's 21st century world, homosexuality is still not widely accepted as natural around the world, and even in "developed" countries can cause double-takes in the most progressive of people. Within the conext of Classical Greece, their love was not something shouted from the rooftops, as it perhaps would be in an ideal world: it was still somewhat secret, somewhat hidden. Achilles kept up appearances by claiming women captured through the course of the Greek army's raids

Throughout the book, and especially as we got into the business end of the Trojan War, I kept waiting for Achilles' heel to be mentioned; surely that would be a big plot point, given that it's arguably the most famous fact about Achilles. But Miller subverted my expectations (and I presume those of many other readers) and completely Patroclus
He was the softness that Achilles' godliness sometimes couldn't grasp.
