content/pages/tech/windows/index.md, before:

---
title: Developing Software on Windows
date: "2018-11-16"
---

Windows development is a mess. Here are some of my notes to explain how it all works together as part of my crusade to not use a Mac as a software developer at Illumio.

# Shells

## Native

- `cmd` – the most primitive command line application on Windows, pretty much obsolete
- `powershell` – native MSFT improvement on CMD, still clunky and not POSIX compliant by a long shot. but is now cross-platform, so they're trying for compatibility

## Unix-like

Assists with building of native Windows applications using MinGW-w64

- [MSYS](http://www.mingw.org/wiki/MSYS) – part of MinGW, ported from Cygwin 1.3
- [MSYS2](http://msys2.org) – independent improvement on MSYS
  - includes `pacman` package manager
  - based on Cygwin, builds on the Cygwin DLL
  - also based on minGW-w64

# Compiler toolchains for Windows

Programs that provide native POSIX-y (need to confirm this) compilation tools, most importantly **GCC**.

- [MinGW](http://mingw.org) - stands for "minimalistic GNU for Windows", first effort, development dropped off
- [MinGW-w64](http://mingw-w64.org) – improvements on MinGW for 64bit systems and Objective-C, de facto for GCC on Windows

# Terminal emulators

- [mintty](https://mintty.github.io/) - the main terminal emulator for Cygwin, MSYS, MSYS2
- [ConEmu](https://conemu.github.io/) - an alternative **con**sole **emu**lator
- [wsltty](https://github.com/mintty/wsltty) - Mintty designed to be used as a frontend terminal for WSL

# Linux distributions

- [Cygwin](https://cygwin.com)
  - distribution of open source + GNU tools, rewritten for Windows.
  - Provides a library that has POSIX system calls expected by programs written for Linux, but can't run native Linux binaries, i.e. a POSIX compatibility layer: `cygwin1.dll`
  - Source code written for Linux can now be compiled for Windows without major code changes, with the Cygwin library
- [WSL](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/about) - allows running native Linux binaries directly
  - Provides a kernel-level translation subsystem (`lxss`) to convert Linux system calls into native Windows system calls, and also translates the response back up to the linux process

Commit message:

Start with some much-needed perspective

content/pages/tech/windows/index.md, after:

---
title: Developing Software on Windows
date: "2022-09-21"
---

(Originally drafted on 2018-11-16 and updated with better context and perspective)

Developing software on can be confusing. Here are some of my notes to explain how it all works together as part of my crusade to not use a Mac as a software developer at Illumio.

# Shells

**Definition**: A shell is a program that allows the user to execute commands provided by the operating system.

## Native

- `cmd.exe` – the most primitive command line application on Windows, would like for this to be obsolete
- `powershell.exe` – native MSFT improvement on CMD, a bit more verbose than \*nix shells and not POSIX compliant by a long shot. but is now cross-platform, so they're trying for compatibility

## Unix-like

- `bash.exe` - the \*nix developer's favorite (or so I think?) shell. Not natively installed on a Windows machine, needs to be installed from a third-party source, like:
  - Git for Windows (includes "Git bash", which is pulled from MSYS2)
  - Windows Subsystem for Linux (see below)
  - Cygwin (see below)
  - MSYS2 (see below)

Assists with building of native Windows applications using MinGW-w64

- [MSYS](http://www.mingw.org/wiki/MSYS) – part of MinGW, ported from Cygwin 1.3
- [MSYS2](http://msys2.org) – independent improvement on MSYS
  - includes `pacman` package manager
  - based on Cygwin, builds on the Cygwin DLL
  - also based on minGW-w64

# Compiler toolchains for Windows

**Definition**: Programs that provide native POSIX-y (need to confirm this) compilation tools, most importantly **GCC**.

- [MinGW](http://mingw.org) - stands for "minimalistic GNU for Windows", first effort, development dropped off
- [MinGW-w64](http://mingw-w64.org) – improvements on MinGW for 64bit systems and Objective-C, de facto for GCC on Windows

# Terminal emulators

- [mintty](https://mintty.github.io/) - the main terminal emulator for Cygwin, MSYS, MSYS2
- [ConEmu](https://conemu.github.io/) - an alternative **con**sole **emu**lator
- [wsltty](https://github.com/mintty/wsltty) - Mintty designed to be used as a frontend terminal for WSL

# Linux distributions

- [Cygwin](https://cygwin.com)
  - distribution of open source + GNU tools, rewritten for Windows.
  - Provides a library that has POSIX system calls expected by programs written for Linux, but can't run native Linux binaries, i.e. a POSIX compatibility layer: `cygwin1.dll`
  - Source code written for Linux can now be compiled for Windows without major code changes, with the Cygwin library
- [WSL](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/about) - allows running native Linux binaries directly
  - Provides a kernel-level translation subsystem (`lxss`) to convert Linux system calls into native Windows system calls, and also translates the response back up to the linux process
