---
title: Red Dead Redemption 2
date: 2025-03-09
---

> Spoilers for the story of Red Dead Redemption: 2 ahead

I finally finished playing through the single-player story of the incredible, one-of-a-kind _Red Dead Redemption 2_ (hereafter referred to as _RDR2_). I've been wanting to write about various video games for a while now&mdash;I actually thought my first article would be about Rocket League&mdash;but the experience of finishing this magnificent story has provided enough emotional impetus for me to actually put (virtual) pen to (virtual) paper. I bought this game on September 23, 2020, got my first story achievement on November 26, 2021, and officially finished it on August 25, 2024. The fact that it took me more than 2.75 years to finish this game is a true travesty and sign that I don't spend enough time on the truly good things in my life.[^1] But enough about me.

I want to focus on the story of _RDR2_ for this piece, but before I get to that, let me just say this: _RDR2_ is a **complete game**. Every aspect of this experience excels and raises the bar for all future games. Let's run through it really quick:

- The visuals are stunning. There were times when I was riding from town to town on my horse that I would literally stop just to admire the beautiful vista I happened to be in, especially considering the variety on display in all of the different areas of the game's world. I was initially frustrated to discover that I had to pay to fast-travel to locations, because this meant I'd have to waste time hiking my way over until I had enough disposable cash in-game to spend, but I found myself choosing to travel on horseback even after riding high on the spoils of a grand robbery. And this was with me turning the graphics sliders down to low because of my slightly aged PC.
- The game mechanics are smooth and intuitive. I played this game on keyboard and mouse for a change from my usual controller, but I was surprised to find that I was not constantly frustrated by failing to aim and shoot people accurately. It seemed that every minor detail of the interface and game platform was lovingly paid attention to, from the specifics of the catalogue at the shopkeepers to the plethora of customization in weaponry, gear, cooking, and beyond.
- The world and the places, the characters, and the side missions are all rich with personality and creativity, and feel more real than any other open world game I've played before. The voice acting is phenomenal: if I close my eyes and hear Roger Clark's rustic drawl I can't help but see my version of Arthur Morgan materialize in front of me.[^2] I also appreciated the diversity of the cast of characters in Dutch's gang and the _RDR2_ world; given the late-19th century setting, I'm not sure how accurate that representation is, but I prefer the decision the game creators made nevertheless.
- I have to also give a special shout out to the music of the game, which perhaps enraptured and immersed me in the game more than anything else. One of the scenes in the game which has stayed with me months after actually playing it and will likely continue to do so is the one where Arthur is riding solo to finally take down Micah. The music that plays as we see this sick and dying man on his way to avenge the ones he loved legitimately shook me to my core.[^3]

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/WoxFRRf9DJM" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

But now let's get to the story.

_Red Dead Redemption 2_ presents a genre-defining story in the Role-Playing Game video game genre. Arthur Morgan is our protagonist and anti-hero: he does not spend his days doing work for the good of society. As a member of Dutch's gang, he sets about carrying out crimes of varying levels of severity to make the gang money. But as the story of _RDR2_ progresses, we get an opportunity to see the complex moral compass of Arthur. The running and gunning is, of course, central to the experience of the game, so we're never truly free of that (even in the quiescent and settled-down epilogue). But the true nature of Arthur's heart comes out as the ever-increasing pressure of being caught causes fractures within the gang's members. Above all, what makes us realize who he really is, is his loyalty to his people as Dutch's paranoia-fueled devolution passes the point of no return. Throughout the whole story, there is a feeling that everyone is waiting for the other shoe to drop. Within chapters the individual missions provide a bit of calming of pace, but invariably there are only two possible outcomes for the gang: getting caught, or making one final cash grab and riding out into the sunset (or the ocean). But it is undeniable that as you play out Arthur's last days (I did say there would be spoilers!) you can't help but connect with this broken man. You want to see him succeed, whatever that means, and wonder if maybe he had made different choices in his youth the pure part of his soul might have led him down a different path. I especially enjoyed how the game essentially helped you foster friendships with other members of the gang through side missions, which made you feel like part of a family. I legitimately had my head in my hands as the final cut scene in the aftermath of the final gunfight on top of the mountain, seeing Arthur struggle to get himself comfortable in his final moments.[^4] Wow. I never knew I could feel so strongly for an imaginary criminal cowboy from fictional Wild West America.

Now, at the time that I played through the game, I actually didn't even realize that _RDR2_ was a prequel to the original game, which has John Marston as the main character. Without that knowledge, the epilogue (which focuses on John Marston) seemed like a simple homage to one of the side characters that shared Arthur's good sense to want out when the time was right. However, I still appreciated its simple brilliance even in isolation. Even though I didn't give John much attention through the main game, it didn't take long to become attached to John and Abigail as they tried to repair their lives. In a sense, John got the chance that we all wanted Arthur to get, which softened the tragedy of Arthur's passing a little. I'm not sure if this was just the character model in my game, but even John's look mirrored the one I gave Arthur, so it was hard not to see a part of his mentor living on. Occasionally, I reflected on the "fairness" of John's situation. He had undoubtedly perpetrated many a crime: stolen from, hurt, or killed dozens. But now he gets a chance to just reset and start his life afresh, without consequence? If you had told me John's rap sheet and asked me what he deserved, I'd agree that some time behind bars was more than warranted. But of course the trick the game plays is that it's not so easy to advocate throwing a man in jail when you've gotten to know him, when you see the purity of his intentions to put his past life behind him, when you see the pain in his partner's eyes when all she wants is a comfortable life for them and their son. With the added context that John's story in fact continues into the original Read Dead, the epilogue takes on a whole new shape, adding a fascinating dimension to John's character and backstory.

As the end of the game approached, I could not help but be reminded of another iconic story with a villainous lead that the audience dubiously ends up rooting for: _Breaking Bad_.

[Spoilers for _Breaking Bad_ ahead]

On the one hand, Walt and Arthur can be thought of as two of the great leading man antagonists in the modern era. Both are dealing with a terminal illness as they approach death's door. And before this terminal illness can take them, they both go down fighting to avenge what took everything away from them. It really was the storybook end for Arthur that kept taking me back to "Felina" (the finale of _Breaking Bad_). Somehow, the audience (or player, in Arthur's case), feels upset about the actions of these men but also perhaps some sympathy for their difficulties. But at the same time, their characters are also very different. For Arthur, the life of a criminal is the only one he has ever known. In fact, as more time passes, all that's on his mind is finding a way out. But for Walt, his ego and pride take him from a soft-spoken, kind-mannered chemistry teacher to a drug empire kingpin with far too many bodies and ruined lives in his wake. As Arthur's end approaches, his perspective widens as he sees his actions in the context of the lives he's affected; but as Walt's does, he becomes hyper-focused on getting his revenge and getting some modicum of closure with regard to giving money to his family - all of the terrible things he has done fade into irrelevancy. In that way, Arthur's end hits different and leaves you with a sadness that can't quite be escaped.[^5]

An anti-hero is, in the 2020's, not an unheard-of concept. In fact you could argue that, especially in the decades since The Sopranos changing the game, anti-hero stories are perhaps at the height of their popularity. Even _RDR2_'s compelling arc of a deviant trying to rediscover his moral center and do what's right isn't revolutionary on its own. But what made _RDR2_ have a different impact on me is the fact that this emotionally complex story was being told through a **video game**. Sure, when we watch Tony Soprano about to beat some poor sap up on TV, a small part of us cringes because we feel like we're almost a part of that behavior. But in _RDR2_, you **are** Arthur Morgan. You don't have the luxury of distancing yourself from his actions and consequences. You have to wonder, even after you've stepped away from your computer to resume normal life, if you made the right choice sparing that man's life or leaving a bullet in his head. While _RDR2_ is no Fallout with its near-infinite tree of player choice impacting the story, the agency that you do have changes how you experience the story. Every RPG has to strike a balance between having its storyline completely affected by player choices and keeping the player on rails, and I feel like _RDR2_ finds it adeptly. All in all, as an advocate for the cultural and artistic power of video games, it fills me with joy (and dare I say pride?) to see the potential of this singular medium of storytelling being realized in Rockstar's perfect creation. _RDR2_ represents a giant leap forward, and sets the standard for decades to come.

[^1]: Here I go again for my 2000+th hr of playing _Rocket League_ only to be hard-stuck in Champ 3.
[^2]: Special shout out to Jack and Geoff from Achievement Hunter getting [featured voice roles](https://youtu.be/XQoyCM4cDnM).
[^3]: The 8M+ views at the time of writing show that I'm not alone in wanting to bask in this scene's glory.
[^4]: I also discovered after finishing the game that Arthur's ending depends on his honor over the course of the game - if his honor is low, he gets executed by Micah. I guess my honor was high enough to warrant this cinematic finish.
[^5]: In a sense, if Arthur parallels Walt, this epilogue very much made John feel like Jesse a la _El Camino_.
