---
title: Memories
date: "2022-04-10"
---

> A meandering stream of consciousness about memories, remembering things and not remembering them, with some real memories sprinkled in.

# Intro

For as long as I can remember, I've had bad memory.[^1] But as I cross into year 27, a soul-deep anxiety that I'm already forgetting so many important things, people, memories, places from my life sporadically grips me when I least expect it. It's paralyzing, knowing that I've lived $26 \times 365$ days on this Earth and yet struggle to remember the last one. Who am I, what is my identity, if not the sum of my lived experiences? If I can't even point to those experiences and say, "I was there. I did that. I lived that", then... what has it all been about? Even without the existential questioning, it's also pretty annoying day-to-day, forgetting the basic things I shouldn't be. It makes people think I don't care about them. People say you'll always remember the things you care about... But I care about so much and remember so little. Why?

If I asked the older generation for an answer, they'd probably attribute it to reliance on technology - all the things that would challenge my memory like phone numbers, directions, things to do, important dates are all remembered for me. I'm sure I can find a slew of well-designed newspaper comics that would provide credibility to this theory. Maybe it's just something with the wiring in my brain. Perhaps I just haven't activated my brain enough. Whatever it is, I haven't been able to find a software update that fixes it. I think the functionality has been deprecated in my hardware so I'm not holding out hope for a fix in the future. :(

# Immediate response

To cope with this feeling, I obsessively try to hold onto anything and everything I can that will help me remember as much of my past as I can. I have box upon box upon box of truly the most random items through the years - a train ticket from a visit to the DC area, a math notebook from 5th ~~grade~~ standard where I scored 100% on every math quiz for a 5-month stretch, my first Stargram from a high school theater production: the list goes on and on. Going digital has certainly enabled my hoarding, especially in conjunction with my obsession for organizing and categorizing things.

But even with the ease of electronic safekeeping, the few times when technology failed me stick out like a thumb after a head-on collision with a basketball [^2]. In middle school, I somehow screwed up the transfer of some of the random documents I made to a new laptop, and I lost some of my most prized creations. I used to LOVE making animations on PowerPoint, of all things. One of the PowerPoints I remember most fondly is one that demonstrated all of the Harry Potter spells from the books. I painstakingly drew and animated moving flames for _Flagrante_ and lovingly finding the best animal stock photos for _Expecto Patronum_. Another was, incredibly enough, a 20+ ball rally between Novak Djokovic and Roger Federer in I wanna say one of the Wimbledons? And I literally animated two stick figures holding tennis rackets and the exact locations on the court that the ball was hit and landed. That one truly was a masterpiece. And yet... all lost to the ether. More recently, I lost all of my photos from the second half of Freshman year and all of Sophomore year of college because I had backed up all of them to my laptop and it just stopped working abruptly one day. And even more recently, I forgot to back up all of my online documents on my UW Google Drive account, especially all of the sheet music I worked on with Awaaz, before the account expired and the Google I trusted so dearly swallowed all of them whole.

# Remembering via music

I guess if I'm being fair to my brain [^3], I do remember some things. Sometimes things come back to me totally randomly, brought on by a random phrase someone said, or even a road I might have driven on before. But my favorite memory trigger of all is, of course, music. So many songs that I listen to are a veritable Pensieve memory of sorts to the time and place in my life that I associate with that song. I love chasing those threads down and boring Kavya with the story every time I hear a song and re-remember that one time I heard it. I even organize my Spotify playlists by the 6-month interval in which I discovered the song - because the songs I listen to invariably end up putting me right back wherever I was in life at the time. One song-memory that I always go back to is this sort of half-formed memory from when I was maybe 6 years old. It was late, and my dad and I were waiting at the (erstwhile?) Sammamish library for my sister's daycare to finish. All I remember is me sitting by the window, my face pressed up against the glass, watching the nighttime traffic on 238th go by. And the song that triggers this memory? "Sacrifice" by Elton John. No idea why - maybe it was playing in the library at the time? Or maybe my dad played it in the car on the way to/from the library? Whatever it is, that song always puts me right back in that spot at age 6. And I can go on and on with many more songs (See: "Weekend Mornings", 2016 memory), but that's for a 8-hour road trip when people are stuck in the car and have no choice but to listen to me.

# Philosophy

But what all of this comes down to is the simple human condition of the passage of time: the one resource we all share, and we all lose in equal quantities no matter what we try. And just as my memories are perfectly captured by music, so too are my thoughts on time. In particular, one album that seems relevant at this juncture is "The Slow Rush" by Tame Impala. This album definitively owned my 2020 music rotation [^4], and by a wide margin. An absolute masterpiece from start to finish, this album (Tame Impala's fourth) was the first one he released after I started actively following him thanks to &mdash; I kid you not &mdash; a Ford Edge commercial during a football game. [^5] The theme of this album is, simply, time. Every song examines a different aspect of how time - the past, the present, and the future - impact the human experience. Even the title, "The Slow Rush", epitomizes the slow rush of time. The ticking of time is slow, boy is it oh so slow; inexorably ticking ticking ticking onward. Just listen to the wall clock (if you still have one) at night when you're trying to sleep. The interval between the tick and the tock last an eternity. And yet some days go by in a blink of the eye. Did they really happen, or did we Daylight savings a whole day instead of just an hour? A lot of the themes in this song connected with this feeling I have of trying to grab onto the passage of time but knowing only too well that my grip is tenable at best. And "We're on the borderline / Caught between the tides of pain and rapture / Then I saw the time / Watched it speedin' by like a train / Like a train". Hits me right in that vulnerable spot, every time.

I had the incredible opportunity to watch Tame Impala perform live at Washington, D.C. last year, and my God was it a transcendental experience. I attended it with [Siddhesh](https://siddhesh.substack.com/), a friend of mine from [Gurukul](https://gurukulpune.edu.in/) who I hadn't seen in a few years at the time. After the concert when we got some food on the streets of DC, it was this exact topic that we talked about. It had been just under 11 years since we had been at Gurukul together, and so much of it felt like a blur all these years later. He asked me, That quote from the Office came to mind - "I wish you knew you were in the good old times" (TODO fix) He too bemoaned the fact that such an incredible and formative part of our life felt like something that always stayed in our periphery but never focused on. But as we sat there, downing cheap but delicious Chinese food, a previously unthinkable idea came to my mind. Maybe that's the point - you're only supposed to live and feel those moments, well, in the moment. The richest of feelings comes from knowing you really were fully invested in something. It's too easy now to try to prioritize taking photos over being present; but you have to try to find a good balance so it doesn't overtake being there in the first place.

# Looking forward

This wasn't really designed to make a point or some profound observation or anything, so my apologies if this kinda lands flat at the end where there's supposed to be a moral or something. Because this is really more of an expression of my exasperation about myself. I don't even know if anyone else feels this way, but if you do I hope this felt validating that there's someone else out there who hates the sieve-like nature of their brain too. If I had to think of something to take away from this, just for you who do relate, I guess it's the age-old adage plastered on every artsy wall hanging: live every day to the fullest. Keep in touch with the people who have had even the smallest connection in your life - use social media for good for once. Make it a point to try to reach out to someone you haven't talked to in forever. It doesn't have to be an immensely deep conversation, it just feels nice to know they're still doing well and what a different sequence of steps have led them to where they are in life now. Do memory games, keep your brain active. Write. Put down in ink (or 1's and 0's) the things you worry about losing and you might find yourself holdong onto them even better than before.

[^1]: I guess that means that I might have had _good_ memory at some point... but I don't remember that, so I can't be sure.
[^2]: viz., a sore thumb.
[^3]: Is my brain me? Or is it a separate entity? But what is my identity without my brain thinking about that identity?
[^4]: So you can bet my easiest access point to 2020 memories are via this album :)
[^5]: Check it out here if you don't believe me: https://youtu.be/aWNTCdpg7qo. The sample from "Let It Happen" starts at 0:11 and the part after 0:23 is maybe one of my favorite guitar solos of all time.

---

Notes:

- Time goes way faster now you're older
